NEXT
Find uniqueness scores for tasks, tools, and tech. 
Then aggregate uniqueness for each



First - create pipeline, where I can get some results from limited information, then gradually add. What is the impact of additional information?


YASIN RECOMMENDS - Ok to assign an element to multiple groups, fine if this results in being weighed extra


MAYBE use the provided metrics already scaled, ask AI to categorize them within the 7 attributes, take averages, and then use those with the scale I decided.

MAYBE an element could apply to multiple attributes - in that case would it be unfair to count twice? Could I reduce its weight within each attribute - for example, if it is in two, then only count 50% for each?

MAYBE ask AI which metrics should be considered positive or negative.








MAYBE ask AI to determine whether tech, tool, or task uniqueness should be weighed differently for different jobs.









FIND ATTRIBUTES
Is a task repetitive?
Does it require cognitive effort?
Physical requirements?
Uniqueness of tech used?

Give each attribute a score - for example scale 1 to 5
How to weigh each attribute - is technology more important than

Use a AI API - Gemini, GPT
Give it the attributes and give it scores based on those

User could pick a Job Title from a dropdown menu
It will show tasks, skills, tech, tools etc
the AI will then tell the user which of the skills are at risk of being replaced





NOTE ABOUT 00
Skills, Abilities, and Activities each have a score for 894 positions. Maybe eliminate positions outside of those for scope?




In 1-4, 1-5, 1-7, 1-8, and 1-9 
for SKILLS ABILITIES ACTIVITIES KNOWLEDGE CONTEXT 
z-score aggregates,
maybe add more, such as mean excluding the largest handful, etc.
May also want to adjust prefixes for most clarity.


1-6 may benefit from NLP to find common words and classify on such. Or maybe AI could do it?




For each job, find jobs that are similar based on similar tasks.

If a task is supplemental at one job but core at another, coudl be an indicator that a person could easily be able to find a job in another field.

If a Job Title has only a small number of Tech Skills, maybe they are more protected. BUT, if these Examples are also extremely common, maybe they are at risk.

Maybe low Tech Skills, and high Tools, means more hands-on work.




NOTES

In the Tools Used dataset, the Commodity Title 'Freeze dryers or lypholizers' has two Commodity Codes associated. Out of 4127 total Commodity Titles, this is the only Commodity for which this is the case. I am assuming this was accidental. As part of my ETL process, in Part 1-2, I manually changed instances of the less common code (23151807) to the more common one (41104701). Raw data as downloaded is unaffected, so this change can be bypassed.




TO DO NEXT
Feb 17, or after meeting - Continue with Notebook 1-2 to agg Tools by Jobs



IDEA
Build a small database, use SQL - For practice





TRANSFORMED DATA DICTIONARY
9 - Work Context - 