How to define risk categories?
Notebook 3-1
Version 1 uses three bins with intervals 0, 25, 75, 100
Version 2 uses three bins with intervals 0, 33, 66, 100
Should there be more than three?


Show ChatGPT's blind scoring, in which I asked it to score each job 1-5 by risk, only with Job Titles and my attributes. See how things changed once actual scaled ONET data was incorporated. See which elements, or tasks/tech/tools are correlated with a score increase/decrease. 





'Controversy' is a measure of distance between the largest and smallest scores, i.e. a proxy for disagreement between models.



For each model, users should be able to see how it classified the elements.



As of now, Tool/Tech/Tasks are not going into the scoring. I may adjust the scale to include them. Even if not, they could still be useful.



IDEA - Plug in estimations back with Tools/Tech/Tasks, and try to find which of these tasks are highly correlated with automation risk estimation.



IDEA - Using all my aggregates, add a function that can find jobs a person could adapt to.
Find jobs that are similar in tools/tech/tasks. 




How to incorporate Tech, Tool, Task Uniqueness? Just plug it into the existing scale?
MAYBE ask AI to determine whether tech, tool, or task uniqueness should be weighed differently for different jobs.







First - create pipeline, where I can get some results from limited information, then gradually add. What is the impact of additional information?


YASIN RECOMMENDS - Try additional runs where I assign an element to multiple groups, fine if this results in being weighed extra



User could pick a Job Title from a dropdown menu
It will show tasks, skills, tech, tools etc
the AI will then tell the user which of the skills are at risk of being replaced





NOTE ABOUT 00
Skills, Abilities, and Activities each have a score for 894 positions. Maybe eliminate positions outside of those for scope?




In 1-4, 1-5, 1-7, 1-8, and 1-9 
for SKILLS ABILITIES ACTIVITIES KNOWLEDGE CONTEXT 
z-score aggregates,
maybe add more, such as mean excluding the largest handful, etc.
May also want to adjust prefixes for most clarity.



1-6 may benefit from NLP to find common words and classify on such. Or maybe AI could do it?







For each job, find jobs that are similar based on similar tasks.

If a task is supplemental at one job but core at another, coudl be an indicator that a person could easily be able to find a job in another field.

If a Job Title has only a small number of Tech Skills, maybe they are more protected. BUT, if these Examples are also extremely common, maybe they are at risk.

Maybe low Tech Skills, and high Tools, means more hands-on work.




NOTES

In the Tools Used dataset, the Commodity Title 'Freeze dryers or lypholizers' has two Commodity Codes associated. Out of 4127 total Commodity Titles, this is the only Commodity for which this is the case. I am assuming this was accidental. As part of my ETL process, in Part 1-2, I manually changed instances of the less common code (23151807) to the more common one (41104701). Raw data as downloaded is unaffected, so this change can be bypassed.



SQL?